CASMINST-5104 DOCS: shandy full system power off/on procedure updates (#2218)
Cray-HPE/docs-csm: operations/security_and_authentication/Retrieve_an_Authentication_Token.md

Retrieve a token for authenticating to one of the API gateways.

The following are important properties of authentication tokens:

> - Keycloak access tokens remain valid for 365 days

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Keycloak access tokens remain valid for 365 days.
```

> - Secrets do not expire; they are persistent in Keycloak

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Secrets do not expire; they are persistent in Keycloak.
```

> - Tokens and/or secrets can be revoked at anytime by an admin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Tokens and secrets can be revoked at any time by an administrator.
```

The API gateways use OAuth2 for authentication. A token is required to authenticate with one of the gateways.

There are multiple API gateways that are used to access services from the different networks.

> - services-gateway accessible at api.nmnlb.SYSTEM_DOMAIN_NAME or api-gw-service-nmn.local

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `services-gateway` accessible at `api.nmnlb.SYSTEM_DOMAIN_NAME` or `api-gw-service-nmn.local`
```

> - customer-admin-gateway accessible at api.cmn.SYSTEM_DOMAIN_NAME

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `customer-admin-gateway` accessible at `api.cmn.SYSTEM_DOMAIN_NAME`
```

> - customer-user-gateway accessible at api.can.SYSTEM_DOMAIN_NAME or api.chn.SYSTEM_DOMAIN_NAME

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `customer-user-gateway accessible` at `api.can.SYSTEM_DOMAIN_NAME` or `api.chn.SYSTEM_DOMAIN_NAME`
```

> The appropriate token must be retrieved from the gateway to access services on that gateway.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The appropriate token must be retrieved from the gateway in order to access services on that gateway.
```

## Procedure

1. Retrieve a token.

   Retrieving a token depends on whether the request is based on a regular user \(as defined directly in Keycloak or backed by LDAP\) or a service account.

   - **Resource owner password grant \(user account\)** - In this case, the user account flow requires the username, password, and the client ID.

       In the example below, replace `myuser`, `mypass`, and `shasta` in the cURL command with site-specific values. The `shasta` client is created during the SMS install process.

       In the following example, the python `-mjson.tool` is not required, it is simply used to format the output for readability.

       ```bash
       ncn-w001# curl -s \

>         -d grant_type=password \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                     -d grant_type=password \
```

>         -d client_id=shasta \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                     -d client_id=shasta \
```

>         -d username=myuser \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                     -d username=myuser \
```

>         -d password=mypass \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                     -d password=mypass \
```

>         https://auth.cmn.SYSTEM_DOMAIN_NAME/keycloak/realms/shasta/protocol/openid-connect/token |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                     https://auth.cmn.SYSTEM_DOMAIN_NAME/keycloak/realms/shasta/protocol/openid-connect/token |
```

>         python -mjson.tool

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                     python -mjson.tool
```

       ```

       Expected output:

>        ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       ```text
```

       {
           "access_token": "ey...IA", <<-- Note this value
           "expires_in": 300,
           "not-before-policy": 0,
           "refresh_expires_in": 1800,
           "refresh_token": "ey...qg",
           "scope": "profile email",
           "session_state": "10c7d2f7-8921-4652-ad1e-10138ec6fbc3",
           "token_type": "bearer"
       }
       ```

       Use the value of `access_token` to make requests.

   - **Client credentials \(service account\)** - The client credentials flow requires a client ID and client secret.

        There are a couple of ways to use a service account:

        - By creating a new service account.
        - By using the Keycloak client that was generated by the System Management Services \(SMS\)
        installation process. The client ID is `admin-client`. The client secret is generated during the install
        and put into a Kubernetes secret named `admin-client-auth`. Retrieve the client secret from this secret as
        follows:

            ```bash

>             ncn-w001# echo "$(kubectl get secrets admin-client-auth \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            ncn-w001# echo "$(kubectl get secrets admin-client-auth -ojsonpath='{.data.client-secret}' | base64 -d)"
```

>             -ojsonpath='{.data.client-secret}' | base64 -d)"

Reviewer: ````suggestion
            ```

            Example output:

            ```text
````

            2b0d6df0-183b-40e6-93be-51c7854388a1
            ```

>         - Given the client ID and secret, the user can retrieve a token by requesting one from Keycloak. In the example below, replace the string being assigned to client\_secret with the actual client secret from the previous step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Given the client ID and secret, the user can retrieve a token by requesting one from Keycloak.

            In the example below, replace the string being assigned to `client_secret` with the actual client secret from the previous step.
```

            Use the value of `access_token` to make requests.

> 2. Present the token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Present the token.
```

   To present the access token on the request, put it in the `Authorization` header on the request as a `Bearer` token.

   For example:

   ```bash
   ncn-w001# TOKEN=access_token

>    ncn-w001# curl -H "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ncn-w001# curl -H "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" https://api.cmn.SYSTEM_DOMAIN_NAME/apis/capmc/capmc/get_node_rules
```

>    https://api.cmn.SYSTEM_DOMAIN_NAME/apis/capmc/capmc/get_node_rules

Reviewer: ````suggestion
   ```

   Example output:

   ```json
````
